Alright let's take a look at using
YAML with Spring Boot. So we have our
application.properties file up
there and what I want to do is let's
take out the jms settings into a YAML file. So I'm going to go in here and
create a New File and need to point out
that Spring Boot is going to look for
YAML files starting with application
and then dot yml. As far as I know
yml is the file extension that you
need to use.
I don't think yaml spelled out is going
to work as far as I know it is not going
to work. But the convention that you see
typically with Spring Boot is to use yml
and Spring Boot will
definitely pick up that then. So I'm
going to go over here and say OK, will
create that file and we are going to add
this to GitHub for you guys. I'm going to
come in here and split this file
horizontally. So we have application.properties up at the top and let's come
in here and we're going to recreate that. So there's guru, now I want to take at
least two spaces, say jms. Now I want to
do two more spaces and we can add in
password and we'll add in the url. So now
we have the exact same file
structure here and it's important to
note the spacing here because if you
came in and we're off on the space, if
you did something like this, it's not
going to like it. It's going to be upset
with you about that. So this is setting
up the structure of the object that's
going to get parsed in YAML and I
am going to come in here and delete the
jms settings and let's go ahead and run
it. And you can see that it's still
picking up from the YAML and I want you
to note that I've gone in and mixed this. So now I have an application.properties
and I have property set and application.properties. I also have application.yml
down at the bottom. So you can see
these are both available in the
resources directory and Spring Boot is
going to parse both those files and
bring them into the context for us. So a very handy feature. You are more
than welcome to mix and match properties
because ultimately, what's happening
under covers is Spring and Spring Boot
are going out and reading all the
properties files and bringing them into
the Spring context as available
properties and there is a hierarchy
that's happening. But right now, all
things are equal, application.properties and application.yaml or
dot yml are on equal footing so we'll
load properties from both of those
equally. Neither's going to override the
other.